Computer Science Course Syllabus Introduction Overview Agents: Perception, Decisions, and Actuation Search and Planning Uninformed Search (Depth-First, Breadth-First, Uniform-Cost) Informed Search (A*, Greedy Search) Heuristics and Optimality Constraint Satisfaction Problems Backtracking Search Constraint Propagation (Arc Consistency) Exploiting Graph Structure Game Trees and Tree-Structured Computation Minimax, Expectimax, Combinations Evaluation Functions and Approximations Alpha-Beta Pruning Decision Theory Preferences, Rationality, and Utilities Maximum Expected Utility Markov Decision Processes Policies, Rewards, and Values Value Iteration Policy Iteration Reinforcement Learning TD/Q Learning Exploration Approximation Artificial intelligence is already all around you, from web search to video games. AI methods plan your driving directions, filter your spam, and focus your cameras on faces. AI lets you guide your phone with your voice and read foreign newspapers in English. Beyond today's applications, AI is at the core of many new technologies that will shape our future. From self-driving cars to household robots, advancements in AI help transform science fiction into real systems. The course will introduce the basic ideas and techniques underlying the design of intelligent computer systems. CS188.1x focuses on Behavior from Computation and will cover the following areas: Statistical and decision–theoretic modeling paradigm. By the end of this course, you will have built autonomous agents that efficiently make decisions in stochastic and in adversarial settings. Reasoning and Learning. With this additional machinery your agents will be able to draw inferences in uncertain environments and optimize actions for arbitrary reward structures. Your machine learning algorithms will classify handwritten digits and photographs. Applications for a wide variety of artificial intelligence problems. The techniques you learn in CS188x will serve as the foundation for further study in any application area you choose to pursue. Join us today to learn more about how AI affects your life, and where it is headed in the future. Basic ideas and techniques underlying the design of intelligent computer systems Statistical and decision–theoretic modeling paradigm How to build agents that exhibit reasoning and learning Applications for a wide variety of artificial intelligence problems