Statistics and Data Analysis Week-1 - Science and Technology : a marriage made in Heaven   Our Knowledge of the Universe  Revolutions in Astronomy  Why Astronomy is hard  The Horse and the Cart   Week-2 - Telescopes : Picturing the Universe   Example story : we are stardust   The technology : how telescopes work   Putting it together : we are stardust part II    Big Telescopes of the future   Week-3 - Space : Getting above it all   Example story : hunting for black holes   The technology : rockets, spacecraft, and orbits   Putting it together : hunting for black holes part II  The future : can space missions get cheaper?   Week-4 - Detectors : Catching the light from the stars   Example story : galaxies from the dawn of time   The technology : CCDs and infra-red arrays  Putting it together : galaxies from the dawn of time part II  Is there another revolution in detector technology?   Week-5 - Computers : Crunching the data  Example story : killer rocks   The technology : computers, databases and the internet  Putting it together : killer rocks part II   The future : hitting the buffers?   Week-6 - Spectrographs : Taking the fingerprints of the stars   Example story : the accelerating universe and dark energy   The technology : how spectrographs work   Putting it together : dark energy part II   The perfect spectrograph? "How do they know that?" Modern astronomy has made some astonishing discoveries - how stars burn and how black holes form; galaxies from the edge of the universe and killer rocks right next door; where the elements come from and how the expanding universe is accelerating. But how do we know all that? The truth is that astronomy would be impossible without technology, and every advance in astronomy is really an advance in technology. But the technology by itself is not enough. We have to apply it critically with a knowledge of physics to unlock the secrets of the Universe. Each week we will cover a different aspect of Astronomical technology, matching each piece of technology to a highlight science result.   We will explain how the technology works, how it has allowed us to collect astronomical data, and, with some basic physics, how we the interpret the data to make scientific discoveries. How astronomy really works - an overview of the technology that astronomers use to collect and measure light from the universe, and how it is used in practice to make scientific discoveries.