Electronics Course Syllabus Week 1: Amplifiers, MOSFET large signal analysis, MOSFET small signal analysis  Week 2: Capacitors, first-order RC circuits  Week 3: Inductors, first-order step response, first-order circuit analysis, impulses, digital circuit speed  Week 4: Impulse, step, ramp superposition, digital memory, state, ZIR, ZSR Want to learn how to construct an amplifier for mobile phones? Wondering how energy storage elements like capacitors and inductors work, or how to make microchips run faster? This free circuit course taught by edX CEO and MIT Professor Anant Agarwal and colleagues is for you. This is the second of three online Circuits and Electronics courses and is taken by all MIT Electrical Engineering and Computer Science (EECS) majors. Topics covered include: MOSFET large signal and small signal analysis; amplifiers; energy storage elements like capacitors and inductors; and dynamics of first-order networks and circuit speed. Design and lab exercises are also significant components of the course. Weekly coursework includes interactive video sequences, readings from the textbook, homework, online laboratories, and optional tutorials. The course will also have a final exam. This a self-paced course, so there are no weekly deadlines. However, all assignments are due by May 12, 2016, when the course will close. Student Testimonials “Brilliant course! It's definitely the best introduction to electronics in Universe! Interesting material, clean explanations, well prepared quizzes, challenging homeworks and fun labs.” - Ilya.  “6.002x will be a classic in the field of online learning. It combines Prof. Agarwal's enthusiasm for electronics and education. The online circuit design program works very well. The material is difficult. I took the knowledge from the class and built an electronic cat feeder.” - Stan  How to build amplifiers using MOSFETs. How to use intuition to describe the approximate time and frequency behavior of first-order circuits containing energy storage elements like capacitors and inductors. The relationship between the mathematical representation of first-order circuit behavior and corresponding real-life effects. How to improve the speed of digital circuits Measurement of circuit variables using tools such as virtual oscilloscopes, virtual multimeters, and virtual signal generators. How to compare the measurements with the behavior predicted by mathematical models and explain the discrepancies.