Information, Tech & Design, Computer Science: Systems & Security, Statistics and Data Analysis Topics Covered: Module 1 - Introduction Course Introduction Defining Spatial Computing Course Structure Interviews with Johannes Schöning, Loren Terveen and Martin Raubal Module 2 - Spatial Query Languages What is a Query? Query Language? An example database with 3 tables SQL overview SELECT statement with 1 table Multi-table SELECT statement Why spatial extensions are needed 1-table spatial queries Trends Module 3 - Spatial Networks Motivation, Societal use cases Example spatial networks Conceptual and mathematical models Need for SQL extensions CONNECT statement RECURSIVE statement Storage and data structures Algorithms for connectivity query Algorithms for shortest path Interviews with Dev Oliver and Betsy George Module 4 - Spatial Data Mining Motivation, Spatial Pattern Families Spatial data types and relationships Limitations of Traditional Statistics Location Prediction model Hotspots Spatial outliers Colocations and Co-occurrences Summary: What is special about mining spatial data? Module 5 - Volunteered Geographic Information (VGI) Introduction to Volunteered Geographic Information Producing VGI Pros and Cons of VGI Interview with Michael Goodchild Module 6 - Positioning Introduction to Positioning Overview of GPS Overview of Wifi and Cellular Positioning Introduction to Content-based Positioning Geoparsing Location-field Positioning Module 7 - Cartography Introduction to Cartography Overview of Maps and Mapping Reference Maps Thematic Maps Spatialization Module 8 - Future Directions Introduction Spatial Databases: Representative projects Data Mining: Representative projects Advances in Cartography Advances in Positioning Interviews with Vipin Kumar, Wan Bae, Mohammed Mokbel and Len Kne From Google Maps to consumer global positioning system (GPS) devices, spatial technology shapes many lives in both ordinary and extraordinary ways. Thanks to spatial computing, a hiker in Yellowstone and a taxi driver in Manhattan can know precisely where they are, discover nearby points of interest and learn how to reach their destinations. Spatial computing technology is what powers the Foursquare check-in, the maps app on your smartphone, the devices used by scientists to track endangered species, the routing directions that help you get from point A to point B, the precision agriculture technology that is revolutionizing farming, and the augmented reality devices like Google Glass that may soon mediate our interaction with the real world. This course introduces the fundamental ideas underlying spatial computing services, systems, and sciences. Topics covered will include the nature of geospatial information, proper statistical frameworks for working with geospatial data, key algorithms and data structures, spatial data mining, and cartography/geovisualization. We will also address applied topics such as where to find spatial data, how to use powerful open source software to analyze and map spatial data, and frameworks for building location-based services. Three Ways to Enjoy this Course: This course is designed to support three different types of students and educational goals: Curiosity Track: Most of us interact with spatial technologies every day. This track is for students who wish to learn about one or two spatial computing topics, but not commit to an entire course. Curiosity track students are not interested in a certificate of accomplishment. Concepts Track: This track is for students who want to learn about spatial computing concepts in order to make informed choices, but who are not programmers and do not have extensive experience with statistical methods. For example, concepts track students will learn about Tobler’s First Law of geography and map projections, but will not delve into the quantifications of either. Students who complete the concepts track with sufficiently high scores will receive a Statement of Accomplishment. Technical Track: This track builds on the concepts track, but adds math and programming. For example, we will cover spatial statistical indicators like Moran’s I and Ripley’s K when discussing Tobler’s First Law and will have students calculate the distance between two points using two different coordinate systems and open-source APIs. Students who complete the technical track with sufficiently high scores will receive a Distinguished Statement of Accomplishment. This course introduces concepts, algorithms, programming, theory and design of spatial computing technologies such as global positioning systems (GPS), Google Maps, location-based services and geographic information systems. Learn how to collect, analyze, and visualize your own spatial datasets while avoiding common pitfalls and building better location-aware technologies.