Information, Tech & Design, Statistics and Data Analysis Week One:&nbsp;What is GEOINT? Learn what GEOINT is and how it provides a powerful way of thinking about and finding solutions to complex humanitarian, military, economic, and cultural problems. We'll discuss the role of secrecy and its challenges. Week Two:&nbsp; GEOINT Data. Examine the types and nature of data used to create GEOINT, including textual information, imagery, and geospatial data. Discuss how location-based data is changing conceptions of privacy. Week Three:&nbsp;GEOINT Data Sources. Understand how GEOINT data is collected by a variety of methods including satellites, drones, crowdsourcing, and through social media. Week Four:&nbsp;The GEOINT Tradecraft. Apply the art and science of extracting meaning from GEOINT data to uncover and investigate relationships and patterns. Week Five:&nbsp;Applying GEOINT Principles. Use GEOINT principles to evaluate and transform raw data into descriptions, explanations, or judgments about a place. Join us for the exciting journey to learn about GEOINT’s application in business, law enforcement, and defense. Advances in satellites, GPS, unmanned aerial systems, wireless communications, handheld computing, and the ability to automate laborious map analysis processes has transformed what used to be called geographic intelligence, or GEOINT, and the nature of the insights provided to managers and leaders. GEOINT is more than just analysts working with GIS in a secure intelligence facility. We have gone from mountains of hardcopy maps to amazing automated systems that provide previously unavailable understanding. GEOINT helps us daily with real-time apps to guide decision making. GEOINT combines geographic information science and technologies with an analytic tradecraft. In this course you will experience the value of GEOINT. You will learn how to design and execute a geospatial analysis project using GEOINT tools and tradecraft. The course is designed for the individual who wants to learn the basics of GEOINT and it is not designed for the geospatial intelligence professional. We're eager to welcome you to the Revolution. Learn how the revolution in geospatial technology combined with the tradecraft of Geospatial Intelligence (GEOINT) have changed how we develop insights about how humans use geography, and discover the power of GEOINT.