The Internet of Things will forever change our personal and professional lives. By 2020, there will be 50 billion connected devices communicating through the Internet. Devices can range from connected coffee makers, cars, or sensors on cattle to connected machines in a production plant. These devices provide data that offers new insights, and as they talk to each other, they develop their own intelligence and can advise customers about optimal ways to put them to use. This will revolutionize consumer habits and the way we do business. For this openSAP course, we have invited two of the leading experts in the field, Henning Kagermann and Bernd Leukert. They will share their views on the Internet of Things, how it will change society and transform businesses, as well as discuss which enabling technologies are instrumental for making use of the Internet of Things, and the challenges and opportunities that lie before us. This course is aimed at anyone interested in learning about the Internet of Things. You don’t need to have any technical knowledge as everything is explained easily and informally. After completing the course, you will be able to explain key terms and trends around the Internet of Things. You will have an understanding of the potential and value of the Internet of Things and Smart Services, and you will understand the opportunities and benefits for society, companies, and consumers. This is a special edition openSAP course; your total learning time will be just two to three hours. The course is broken down into eight units consisting of one video per unit, with self-tests for you to complete after each section. Your results will not be saved; they are just for your personal use. At the end of the course, there is a course assignment. If you complete the course assignment successfully, you will receive a record of achievement. The online discussion forum will be available for you to collaborate with other learners and SAP experts. The forum will be monitored from March 25 to May 5. After this time, you can still access the course content, but you will not be able to reply to or create new discussions within the forum. You do not need to complete the course in one sitting. Feel free to dip in whenever you have a few minutes to spare and complete the next unit to learn about how the Internet of Things will change our lives.