Computer Science Course Syllabus Module 1: Introduction to Data Science and Machine Learning This module introduces the core concepts of data science and machine learning before describing how to process data by using R in an HDInsight cluster.  Module 2: Using Mahout This module introduces Apache Mahout, and describes how to use Mahout libraries to implement clustering and recommendation solutions.  Module 3: Using Spark Machine Learning This module introduces Machine Learning support in Spark clusters, and describes how to implement a predictive solution using Spark.  Final Exam The fourth week of the course is given over the final exam. You must achieve a score of 50% or higher to pass this course and earn a certificate. Learn how to implement predictive analytics solutions using Hadoop machine learning technologies like Mahout and Spark on Microsoft Azure HDInsight. In this four-week course, you will learn the basic concepts of data science and also use R programming on an HDInsight cluster. This course is the third in a series that explores big data and advanced analytics techniques with HDInsight; and builds on the concepts and skills learned in DAT202.1x: Processing Big Data with Hadoop in Azure HDInsight and DAT202.2x: Implementing Real-Time Analysis with Hadoop in Azure HDInsight. Note: To complete the hands-on elements in this course, you will require an Azure subscription and a Windows client computer. You can sign up for a free Azure trial subscription (a valid credit card is required for verification, but you will not be charged for Azure services).  Note that the free trial is not available in all regions. It is possible to complete the course and earn a certificate without completing the hands-on practices How to: Identify core concepts and techniques for data science and machine learning. Install and use R on an HDInsight cluster. Use Apache Mahout to create predictive solutions that classify data and produce recommendations. Use Apache Spark to build a machine learning solution.