Information, Tech & Design This course includes six modules, each having associated activities and a quiz: Module 1: ICT Accessibility This module will provide an introduction to ICT accessibility as well as an overview of the relevance the five subsequent modules in this course. Module 2: ICT Accessibility Design This module will provide instruction on the importance of ICT accessibility in designing and procuring workplace applications. Module 3: Assistive Technology This module will provide instruction on the impact of assistive technology (AT) and mainstream technology on individuals with disabilities. Module 4: Accessible Documents and Multimedia This module will provide instruction on the elements of an accessible document, accessibility standards, tools to check accessibility, multimedia captioning and audio description standards and guidelines. Module 5: Web Accessibility Evaluation and Design This module will provide instruction on web accessibility through utilizing online evaluation and remediation tools using HTML5 and ARIA. Module 6: ICT Accessibility Operations This module will provide an overview of ICT accessibility market forces and organization challenges, and will outline how an ICT Accessibility Operation Model can help organizations address their challenges. In this introductory course, learn how to measure an organization’s ICT accessibility and assess the importance of maintaining an inclusive workplace for both employees and customers with disabilities. This six-week course consists of modules detailing some of the primary ICT accessibility obstacles facing organizations today. Each module is taught by a subject matter expert through content-rich videos, activities, and discussion forums. Whether you work in the corporate, governmental or nonprofit sector, this course will enable you to identify ICT accessibility issues, analyze specific needs, and evaluate possible solutions. As the world becomes more technology-driven, organizations of all sizes and sectors touch ICT accessibility, whether through website design, document creation, or multimedia utilization. Start outlining a plan to establish and maintain an accessible enterprise operation today. Join our instructors as we explore why, what, and how to integrate accessibility design elements into your ICT organizational roadmap to support equal access for all. Learn to address Information and Communication Technology (ICT) accessibility in this course covering challenges and strategies for organizations and individuals. Whether corporate, governmental, or nonprofit, this course will enable you to identify ICT accessibility issues, analyze needs, and evaluate solutions for both employees and customers with disabilities.