Engineering Week One:&nbsp;Introduction. definitions, basic principles, structure-function relationshipsWeek Two:&nbsp;Biomaterials. metals, ceramics, polymers (synthetic and natural). Biodegradable materials, native matrix Week Three:&nbsp;Tissue culture basics: primary cells vs. cell lines, sterile techniques, plastics, enzymes, reactors and cryopreservation Week Four:&nbsp;Oxygen transport.&nbsp;diffusion, Michalies-Menten kinetics, oxygen uptake rates, limits of diffusion Week Five:&nbsp;Principals of self assembly. cell migration, 3D organization and angiogenesis Week Six:&nbsp;Skin tissue engineering. introduction, scar vs. regeneration, split skin graft, apligraf Week Seven:&nbsp;Cardiovascular tissue engineering. introduction, blood vessels structure, vascular grafts Week Eight:&nbsp;Liver tissue engineering. bioartificial liver (BAL) assist device, shear forces , oxygen transport, plasma effects&nbsp;&nbsp; Week Nine:&nbsp;Liver tissue engineering. self-assembled organoids, decelluarized whole livers Week Ten:&nbsp;Stem cells. basic principles, embryonic stem cells, induced pluripotent stem cells Tissue Engineering is a rapidly expanding field of applied biology and biomedical engineering that aims to create artificial organs for transplantation, basic research, or drug development. A fascinating aspect of the field is the fundamental need to integrate knowledge of organic chemistry, cell biology, genetics, mechanics and transport processes to create functional organs. The process uncovers the fascinating complexity of living tissues, and the joy of creation. &nbsp; This course will review basic cell culture techniques, structure function relationships, cellular communication, natural and artificial biomaterials, and the basic equations governing cell survival and tissue organization.&nbsp; Step into the world of Tissue Engineering, a rapidly expanding field of applied biology aiming to create artificial organs for transplantation, basic research, or drug development.