Mathematics Week 1: You will learn how to predict a team’s win loss record from the number of runs, points, or goals scored by a team and its opponents. Then we will introduce you to multiple regression and show how multiple regression is used to evaluate baseball hitters. Excel data tables, VLOOKUP, MATCH, and INDEX functions will be discussed. Week 2:&nbsp; You will concentrate on learning important Excel tools including Range Names, Tables, Conditional Formatting,&nbsp; PivotTables, and the family of COUNTIFS, SUMIFS, and AVERAGEIFS functions. Week 3: You will learn how Monte Carlo simulation works and how it can be used to evaluate a baseball team’s offense and the famous DEFLATEGATE controversy. Week 4: You will learn how to evaluate baseball fielding, baseball pitchers, &nbsp;and evaluate in game baseball decision-making. The math behind WAR (Wins above Replacement) and Park Factors will also be discussed. Modern developments such as infield shifts and pitch framing will also be discussed. Week 5: You will learn basic concepts involving random variables (specifically the normal random variable, expected value, variance and standard deviation.) You will learn how regression can be used to analyze what makes NFL teams win and decode the NFL QB rating system. You will also learn that momentum and the “hot hand” is mostly a myth. Finally, you will use Excel text functions and the concept of Expected Points per play to analyze the effectiveness of a football team’s play calling. Week 6: You will learn how two-person zero sum game theory sheds light on football play selection and soccer penalty kick strategies. Our discussion of basketball begins with an analysis of NBA shooting, box score based player metrics, and the Four Factor concept which explains what makes basketball teams win. Week 7: You will learn about advanced basketball concepts such as Adjusted plus minus, ESPN’s RPM, SportVu data, and NBA in game decision-making. Week 8: You will learn how to use game results to rate sports teams and set point spreads. Simulation of the NCAA basketball tournament will aid you in filling out your 2016 bracket. Final 4 is in Houston! Week 9: You will learn how to rate NASCAR drivers and get an introduction to sports betting concepts such as the Money line, Props Bets, and evaluation of gambling betting systems. Week 10: You will learn how Kelly Growth can optimize your sports betting, how regression to the mean explains the SI cover jinx and how to optimize a daily fantasy sports lineup. We close with a discussion of golf analytics. If you have been interested in the media explosion discussing "sports analytics" this course is for you. You will learn lots about sports, Excel, analytics, and how they interface. Cool topics include setting point spreads, choosing daily fantasy sports lineups, evaluating football play selection and NBA lineups. The course is self-contained with no real requirements beyond high school algebra and knowledge of the Excel Copy Command. Learn how probability, math, and statistics can be used to help baseball, football and basketball teams improve, player and lineup selection as well as in game strategy.