Computer Science XSeries Program Overview This introductory college-level business information systems XSeries is designed to help you pass the CLEP Information Systems and Computer Applications exam and introduce you to the amazing world of Information Technology (IT).   Through this series, you will learn the basic concepts of information systems and their application, and gain familiarity with the terminology used within the IT field.   This series covers the following topic areas:  Information Systems and Office Application Software in Organizations Standard office suite tools, office systems (email, conferencing, etc...), basics of desktop operating systems, Internet, web browsers,  Electronic Data Interchange and enterprise wide systems  Hardware and Systems Technology Computers and their components, data representation and processing Computer networks, client/server architecture, operating systems architecture and wireless computing  Information Systems Software Development Software development, systems development, information processing, user interface design and standards Project management  Programming Concepts and Data Management Programming languages and logic, object oriented methods, data types and structures, file types, databases, SQL, Web technologies and development, data warehousing and data mining  Business, Social, and Ethical Implications and Issues Economic effects, business strategies, privacy concerns, security and controls, intellectual property Careers in information technology  By completing this XSeries, you will be prepared to pass the CLEP Information Systems and Computer Applications Exam.   See more about Preparing for CLEP Information Systems and Computer Applications Exam Hide Prepare for the CLEP Information Systems and Computer Applications exam. Part 3 will focus on software development. Prepare for the CLEP Information Systems and Computer Applications exam. Part 4 will cover the programming elements of the exam. Prepare for the CLEP Information Systems and Computer Applications exam. Part 5 will cover the social implications of technology. Prepare for the CLEP Information Systems and Computer Applications exam. Part 1 will focus on IT in organizations. Prepare for the CLEP Information Systems and Computer Applications exam. Part 2 will focus on hardware.