The SAP User Experience (UX) strategy is aimed at bringing great products to our customers. Using the principles of design thinking, we maintain our core value of listening to our customers’ needs and quickly incorporating their feedback into SAP products. With the influence of consumer software making its way into the enterprise, SAP’s UX strategy aims to meet users’ expectations of easy-to-use software in the workplace. Join Sam Yen, SAP’s Chief Design Officer as he explains SAP’s UX strategy. He reviews the history of design thinking at SAP, the core elements and products we provide to meet the strategy, and the real business value it brings to our customers. This course is aimed at anyone interested in learning about SAP’s UX strategy. You don’t need to have any technical knowledge to understand the concept of this strategy, which is explained easily and informally by Sam Yen. After completing the course, you will have an understanding of the core elements of SAP’s UX strategy. You will understand how products like SAP Fiori UX and SAP Screen Personas are helping to renew traditional SAP software to meet customers’ expectations of great software in the workplace, and enabling customers to make solutions that meet their specific needs. This is a special edition openSAP course; your total learning time will be just two to three hours and all the content is already available. The course is broken down into six units consisting of one video per unit, with self- tests for you to complete after each section. Your results will not be saved; they are just for your personal use. At the end of the course, there is a course assignment. You can complete the assignment at any time. If you complete the course assignment successfully, you will receive a Record of Achievement. The online discussion forum will be available for you to collaborate with other learners and SAP UX strategy experts. The forum will be monitored from August 27 to October 22. After this time, you can still access the course content, but you will not be able to reply to or create new discussions within the forum. You don’t need to complete the course in one sitting. Feel free to dip in whenever you have a few minutes spare to complete the next unit and learn about how the SAP UX strategy is transforming business software into an easy-to-use experience that provides real value for our customers’ business.