Statistics and Data Analysis Lecture Topics Lecture 1: Experimental research  Lecture 2: Correlational research  Lecture 3: Variables and distributions  Lecture 4: Summary statistics  Lecture 5: Correlation  Lecture 6: Measurement  Lecture 7: Introduction to regression  Lecture 8: Null Hypothesis Significance Tests (NHST)  Lecture 9: Central limit theorem  Lecture 10: Confidence intervals Lecture 11: Multiple regression  Lecture 12: Multiple regression continued           Lecture 13: Moderation  Lecture 14: Mediation  Lecture 15: Group comparisons (t-tests)  Lecture 16: Group comparisons (ANOVA)  Lecture 17: Factorial ANOVA  Lecture 18: Repeated measures ANOVA  Lecture 19: Chi-square  Lecture 20 Binary logistic regression  Lecture 21: Assumptions revisited (correlation and regression)  Lecture 22: Generalized Linear Model  Lecture 23: Assumptions revisited (t-tests and ANOVA)  Lecture 24: Non-parametrics (Mann-Whitney U, Kruskal-Wallis)  Lab Topics: Lab 1: Download and install R  Lab 2: Histograms and summary statistics            Lab 3: Scatterplots and correlations           Lab 4: Regression  Lab 5: Confidence intervals  Lab 6: Multiple regression  Lab 7: Moderation and mediation  Lab 8: Group comparisons (t-tests, ANOVA, post-hoc tests)  Lab 9: Factorial ANOVA  Lab 10: Chi-square  Lab 11: Non-linear regression (Binary logistic and Poisson)  Lab 12: Non-parametrics (Mann-Whitney U and Kruskal-Wallis)  Statistics One is designed to be a comprehensive yet friendly introduction to fundamental concepts in statistics. Comprehensive means that this course provides a solid foundation for students planning to pursue more advanced courses in statistics. Friendly means exactly that. The course assumes very little background knowledge in statistics and introduces new concepts with several fun and easy to understand examples.  This course is, quite literally, for everyone. If you think you can't learn statistics, this course is for you. If you had a statistics course before but feel like you need a refresher, this course is for you. Even if you are a relatively advanced researcher or analyst, this course provides a foundation and a context that helps to put one’s work into perspective. Statistics One also provides an introduction to the R programming language. All the examples and assignments will involve writing code in R and interpreting R output. R software is free! What this means is you can download R, take this course, and start programming in R after just a few lectures. That said, this course is not a comprehensive guide to R or to programming in general.  Statistics One is a comprehensive yet friendly introduction to statistics.